Welcome to this month's broadcast. Here are a few highlights of what we'll enjoy on the program.
What if changing circumstances in the family begin pushing mates apart emotionally?
This dramatization of Sean and Chiara may provide some timely guidance.
Also, the story of Grace Lee will be an encouragement to any who have faced severe emotional
challenges for taking a stand for the truth. You'll see the effect that her actions had on those
around her. And this month's music video will reassure us of the love, kindness, and support we
enjoy as Jehovah's people. All that and more on this February 2019 edition of JW Broadcasting.
The theme of this program is taken from the second part of Romans 1210.
And showing honor to one another, take the lead. What is honor? In the Hebrew scriptures,
the term translated honor literally means heaviness. So when we honor someone, we're acknowledging
that he's weighty or that he mounts to something. In the Greek scriptures, the word is related to
setting a price on something, meaning that the one we honor is esteemed or has value.
Who should we honor? Of course, Jehovah is worthy of honor. Revelation chapter 4 verse 11 says this
and gives us the reason for giving glory and honor to Jehovah. It says because he created all things.
He is responsible for us having life in the first place.
How do we give him honor? There are many ways that we honor him by doing his will or being his
laws and principles. We honor him by extolling his qualities and promises, telling others about
these gifts from God. We show him honor by contributing financially to the worldwide educational
work that he's directing through his son and Holy Spirit. And just as Revelation chapter 4 said
about Jehovah being worthy of the honor, Revelation chapter 5 verse 12 says that his son Christ Jesus
is worthy of the same. Verse 12 says of Jesus, they were saying with a loud voice, the lamb who
was slaughtered is worthy to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and
glory and blessing. How do we show honor to Jesus? One way is acknowledged in the verse we just read.
He was slaughtered like a sacrificial lamb so that we might have the hope of everlasting life.
We highly esteem and value that sacrifice. We honor Jesus by recognizing his role as an immortal
king of kings in the heavens. And another very practical way to honor Jesus is to strive to imitate
his life and personality as the model for us to follow closely. If we take the lead in showing honor,
who else will we view as highly valued to be treated with esteem? Ephesians 6 1 and 2 says that
children honor their father and mother when they're obedient to them. Matthew 15 4 through 6 makes it
clear that adult children honor their parents and grandparents by giving material assistance to them
as needed. Verse 25 verse 17 urges us to give elders double honor because of their hard work in our
behalf. Romans 13 1 and 7 even extends the matter of showing honor to governmental rulers and
others in authority. Verse 22 verse 17 broadens the meaning of honor even further saying honor
men of all sorts. In addition to being kind and respectful to people in general, we also honor
them by being willing to spend time sharing the good news with them. Ephesians 5 22 through 25 appeals to
wives to honor their husbands by having Christ-like subjection for them. Husbands are to honor their
wives by showing them love and treating them just as Jesus treated the congregation. And what about
our theme text for this discussion? Who was Paul addressing in Romans chapter 12 when he said
and showing honor to one another take the lead? Who hardly one another in that verse? Look at Romans
chapter 1 and verse 7 with me. Paul says he's writing to all those who are in Rome as God's beloved
ones call to be holy ones. So all of us in the Christian congregation are to have honor for each
other. I'd like to spend the balance of my time discussing two of the many opportunities we have to
show honor. They're the last two that I just referenced. First, marriage mates showing honor to
each other and second showing honor to one another in our congregations. Marriage is in general today
are seriously lacking in honor. Marriage mates often demean one another with harsh words and
disrespectful attitudes. Some in the world resort to physical violence as if that somehow makes the
abusive one right in his view of what the issue is. An infidelity part of one or both mates is so
common. It doesn't even raise eyebrows anymore. All of this is a gross lack of honor and marriage.
But what about marriages of those professing to be Jehovah's Witnesses? We're blessed with so many
marriages that are wholesome and honorable true none are perfect. But how blessed we are to have the
truth and to have learned to be more and more Christlike with each other. We've learned to shed
things we heard when we're growing up. However, the matter of honoring our marriage mate needs to be
discussed. While relatively few of our marriages end up with some kind of physical violence and
relatively few end up in divorce, what about having honor in the marriage? After living together as
husband or wife for many months or for years or even for decades familiarity can cause us to treat
each other with less respect or honor than when we were courting. That isn't right. It isn't Christlike.
But with our inherited imperfection, we may succumb to dishonable words and behavior with the one
we promised to treasure until death do us part. How can we get a grip on this trait and minimize the
times that we have a clash of spirit and words? First, let's consider the two basic responsibilities
assigned to marriage mates. This is the foundation that we can then build on to improve.
The role of the husbands clearly stated at 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 3,
while some wives in society made bristle at this thought, why serving Jehovah are to embrace this
thought? It's the arrangement of God. 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 3 says,
but I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ and turn the head of a woman as the
man and turn the head of the Christ is God. God's Word says that the head of a woman is the man
however, the head of the woman is not to be a domineering man, not an abuse of man verbally or
physically. He used to imitate his head and who was that? What did the first part of the verse say?
They head of every man is the Christ. In fact, Ephesians chapter 5 strikes this fine balance between
being ahead of the wife and being a loving head like the Christ. Ephesians 5, 22 and 23 says,
let wise be in subjection to their husbands as to the Lord. What of the disposition of the husband?
Because a husband is head of his wife just as the Christ is head of the congregation,
he being a savior of this body. That verse says it all. Verse 33 of the same chapter says this,
each one of you must love his wife as he does himself. On the other hand, the wife should have
deep respect for her husband. There's nowhere in God's Word that says that if one mate pushes the
other mate's button emotionally, that it cancels the offended mate's obligation to be Christ-like.
The problem is that when one mate is offended or hurt, it's so easy to roll the eyes and discuss
or to lash back with a verbal insult. Then the other mate fires back with another harsh cutting
remark. It's like when on a forest fire, temper's blaze in the evening goes up and smoke.
It's not at all Christ-like. There's no honor shown in such a conflagration. It has to stop
sooner rather than later. The January 15th 2015 issue of the Watchtower said this, remember that marriage
is not a competition to find out who is stronger, who can shout louder, or who can think of the most
cutting remark. True, we all have flaws and sometimes we upset others, but there is never a
justifiable reason for either a husband or a wife to use sarcastic in demeaning speech or worse
to shove or hit each other. How can we change the atmosphere? Someone needs to put out the fire
with the water of God's Word. Romans 12, 10, and the bead part again, in showing honor to one
other, take the lead. One of the mates must take the lead, even if at the time they're apologizing
for their own behavior, acknowledging that they didn't respond in a Christ-like way, saying,
forgive me. That same issue of the Watchtower cited two scriptures, one for the husband and one for
the wife. We'll first read Proverbs 17, verse 27. Husbands, listen to this and apply it prior to a
rift or even during the conflict, Proverbs 17, 27. A man of knowledge restrains his words
and a discerning man will remain calm. Husbands, does that describe us? Now wives, please locate
Proverbs 31, 26. Does this describe your speech even when some altercation occurs?
Proverbs 31, 26. She opens her mouth in wisdom. The law of kindness is on her tongue. Usually after
a misunderstanding and rash words have been said, we feel miserable and upset. We often chastise
ourselves or adding fuel to the fire. How much better to train ourselves to restrain our words
and remain calm and to speak in wisdom and with kindness of tongue? Meet Emil and Ferruca
Garbovan from Romania. Their good examples of how the power of God's word can mold and change
the attitudes of marriage mates, willing to be guided by it.
In 1983, when I met Ferruca, I already had two little girls. One was seven years old and the
other one was three. I accepted to study the Bible. My husband worked as a warrant officer for
the police, so at the beginning I studied in secret. Then I decided to tell him the truth.
When I found out that my wife was studying the Bible in order to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
I became very sad and I realised that our marriage, our family was in danger because I only knew
bad things about Jehovah's Witnesses. He threatened, he would divorce me and he did. The divorce
was a very difficult time in my life because I was seven months pregnant with our third daughter.
Following the divorce, my husband was given the house and the custody of our two daughters.
I had to leave the house and I stayed for almost a year with two families of our brothers.
I saw Jehovah's love towards me and I loved Jehovah very much, but I loved my husband too.
One day, as I was walking and holding the little girl's hand, I saw Ferruca's husband
walking toward me. My heart stopped and I said to myself, he is going to hit me.
But Emil was a gentleman and he took the little girl in his arms,
talked to her for a few minutes and then he put her back down and left.
When I saw him leaving, I thanked Jehovah because he didn't beat me.
In 1990, I looked for my wife and I told her that I would like to remarry her, to reunite our family.
And after a while, she agreed and step by step I started to study.
In 2003, I became one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
I am very happy that I made this change and I regret that I didn't do it sooner.
I personally saw how the truth can change a person's life, even in my own family.
Currently, I serve as an elder and in 2010, I became a regular pioneer.
When I see Emil conduct the Bible study next to me, feel like kneeling rather than standing
to thank Jehovah. So to married couples who loved Jehovah, we repeat. And showing honor,
take the lead. The principles of just discussed can also be applied when showing honor
to others in the congregation. Like the husband and wife that we just discussed,
all of us should be improving in imitating Jesus and in following his steps closely
in all of our interactions with fellow believers in the congregation.
How do we show honor to one another? One way is well described at 1 Corinthians 10 verse 23
and verse 24. We show honor when we put the other person's feelings and needs ahead of our own.
1 Corinthians 10, 23 and 24. All things are lawful, but not all things are advantageous.
All things are lawful, but not all things build up. Let each one keep seeking not his own advantage,
but that of the other person. We show honor when we suppress our own rights.
What we do or say might be lawful, but is it advantageous?
Will it build up? Verse 24 then concisely says it. Keep seeking not our own advantage or right,
but that of the other person. We show honor to others when we do good deeds for them. Possibly it's
even a humble task that an elderly publisher needs done. It could be offering to clean the house,
take them to the store or fill some other need. The principal is at Luke 22 verse 26.
You though are not to be that way, but let the one who is the greatest among you become as the
youngest and the one taking the lead as the one ministering. Earlier, I cited 1 Timothy 517
where we're urged to give elders double honor because of their hard work in our behalf.
They're also part of our congregation and deserve honor. In our August program last year,
brother let helped us consider much of what is involved. You'll recall that his subject was
appreciating our gifts in men. We minister to or honor others when we readily forgive them if
they've embarrassed us or heard our feelings. Overall, Jehovah's people do quite well in honoring
one another in the congregation. But here's the question, are we improving in this aspect of our
Christian personality? In our theme scripture, Paul didn't just say to honor one another. He said
to why not or reach out in this aspect of our Christian life. His words were to take the lead.
If Paul had just said to show honor to each other, that would be like a teacher urging a group
of literate students to learn to read. If they're literate, they don't need to learn to read.
But what might be the teacher urging them to do? He might encourage them to read better
or to improve. Love is the identifying mark of Christ's disciples. So honor is something we've
learned to show. However, like the teacher, Paul is urging us to improve in this area.
He said, take the lead in showing honor. The footnote says this could be rendered taking the
initiative in showing honor. Instead of waiting for some obvious reason to do good for others to
commend someone to check on a shut-in, look for opportunities to take the initiative to show honor
in the family and in our congregations. Yes, in showing honor, take the lead. At times,
changing circumstances can make it challenging to show honor. In this dramatization,
note how the husband and wife adjusted to a change while learning new ways to continue showing
love and honor to each other. My name is Kiera and that's my husband, Sean. Our son,
a kill moved out recently to help where the need is greater. I didn't realize just how much he
made us laugh. I miss that. It's just more quiet now. But more than that,
I felt we were growing apart. I tried talking to him. It didn't go well.
Ever since I key left, things have been off between Kiera and I. She is so serious now.
I wish she would just lighten up and laugh more. Like when our kill was still here, as much as I hated to
admit it, it felt like we were growing apart. Even our kill noticed. Anyway, could I ask you guys a
question? Are you both doing okay? Because you don't look okay. Of course, we're okay. We're
doing wonderful, right? Yeah, we're doing good. We weren't fooling anyone, except maybe ourselves.
And for the first time, we both revealed to each other just how we had been really feeling.
We knew we were headed down a dangerous path. We had to do something fast. We read aloud the
scripture at Romans 12 and 10 in showing honor to one another. Take the lead.
We thought about Abraham and Sarah. They weren't perfect. But they worked hard to show honor to
each other by listening and by caring. I told Kiera, I know I can do better and I want to.
Because I love her so much. I told Sean, let's both try to do better. So we did. Once later,
we decided to pioneer together. Now, it seemed we had a lot to talk about. I felt like I was seeing a
whole new side of Kiera. Like Abraham and Sarah, our marriage wasn't perfect. There's going to be
stressful times. But by working hard to apply Bible principles, we got through that rough patch.
And it drew us even closer together. First Corinthians 13 verses 4 and 7 tells us
love is patient and kind and bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things,
endures all things. Our dramatization helped us see how love can adapt to changing needs and
circumstances. But wouldn't it be nice to talk with some real life examples of those who have
developed such skills? Well, we have a special treat. A long time faithful couple has joined us
in the studio. William and Angela Samuelson who served Patterson Beffel in the United States.
Now, of course, normally each other for decades. And I know he was Bill and Angie. So that's
what we refer to him. So nice that you could be here and be interviewed.
What's helped you both maintain a happy marriage? Well, we work as a team. So we always check with
each other before making decisions, even in areas where we wouldn't necessarily have to. It would
be okay to go ahead. But just out of respect, we talk with each other about any decisions that we
make. And you know, Brother Morris, we've been married 60 years now. And we've never really had a
real serious argument. We've had some disagreements, but nothing ever serious. And whenever we have
those kind of words, well, we never use demeaning language or say derogatory things about each other.
That makes me very happy. That's commendable. Early in our marriage, there was one occasion.
When Angie was upset with me about something, it could have been anything. But in the conversation,
it obviously showed in her tonal voice. So I explained to her that she could say anything she wanted
as long as she smiled when she said it. Well, she tried. And we both had a good laugh.
Very hard to stay mad when you're smiling. Very good advice. What about in the congregation,
have you been able to show each other on or there? Well, when we have assignments from the platform,
either of us, we work together. Angie is much better with grammar, pronunciation than I am.
And so I'll check with her to make sure that I'm saying things as correct as possible.
And she checks with me on prophetic significance, for example, or theocratic understanding or
procedure and timing. Yes. And something that's very important is when we do check with each other,
we're not thin-skinned about the advice that we want to give each other. I'll call it advice.
And that makes life a lot easier. We don't get angry because we've been told we need to improve
on something. Well, that's excellent. You also spent a long time in the traveling work before
coming to Bethel. We knew you the traveling work early 70s and then later when we were down south.
You were assigned down there. What did you learn about showing honor in that avenue of service?
Well, as you say, we were in the traveling work for 33 years just over. And most of those years,
we would have other assignments. I would be working with the district, now regional convention
organization or other assignments. And it meant that Angie would be alone in the congregation.
She never complained nor did she become unduly inquisitive about my assignment, which sometimes
would have been confidential. When we had an unexpected move that came up, a change of assignment
somewhere, Angie would just pack and be ready to go. That's right. That was my job packing.
And in the field ministry by the Morris, we would usually be in separate car groups because
Bill would work with her brothers and I would work with the sisters. And I really appreciated
the fact that he always made sure I had a safe driver. It worked out most of the time. And if we had
a territory that was a little scary, why he made sure that we were safe in the territory. So I
appreciated that very much. In one congregation, things don't always go the way we plan.
The brothers scheduling the meals had scheduled two families for the same noon meal for us.
The one sister was deaf and she had always had the traveling brother on a certain day and she
didn't hear when she was told it wouldn't be that day. So she had gone ahead and prepared a meal.
In the meantime, we had been assigned to another home where they served us a full course or courses
Italian meal. While we were eating, we found out that the other sister was waiting for us. She would
have been highly offended if somebody didn't come. So I went to the Kingdom Hall, handled the meeting
for field service after the meal. Angie went to the sister and that sister would probably still be
met at me if Angie hadn't gone. Boy, was I sleepy that afternoon after two big meals. You handle that
very Christianly. Now, as we mentioned, your current assignment is here at Bethel. How have you
navigated the unique challenges of this form of service and still honoring one another?
Well, as you know, we work in different departments, but we respect that some things are
confidential to that department. So we don't make the work of our department a major part of our
conversation. We would have an energy problem at the end of the day after working all day and
feels very considerate about accepting too many social invitations. And so we respect each other's
limitations when it comes to physical and just energy in general. Well, that's certainly honoring
each other. Well, Bill and Angie, those are practical and encouraging comments. We really thank you
so much for taking the time and allowing us to interview you. And we really appreciate your good
example all these decades. Well, thank you. Well, the Samuicins are a wonderful example to try to
imitate. We know that many marriages may have a more difficult start in some cases. The mates may not
share the same spiritual values. What can be done if we find this to be true in our case? Notice how
sister Grace Lee from Great Britain dealt with these challenges in her marriage.
I was born in Hong Kong in 1952. When I was about just over 14 years of age, my mother sent me down
and said, look, there's a marriage maker and the gentleman he's agreed to take you as his wife.
I was absolutely petrified. I never met him before. We actually
20 years different between age, but I wanted to go through because I love my mom. I want her
to able to have a chance of happiness. I came to England. I'm not long after that. We starting our
first Chinese takeaway in that little town. I had to work very hard seven days a week to help my
husband run the business. I was the only Chinese woman in the entire town. I have nowhere to
ask for help or advice, so I have a really bad time. When my second daughter was born,
when night she just stopped breathing and a few minutes later, the nurse come out and said,
go to one flower for his garden and that's where your daughter's gone. So at that moment of time,
I was very hungry and I feel sad and sorrow and lonely. When I have the horrible guilt,
it's my fault. Oh, it's God. It's his fault. So I stopped praying to God. One day there was one very
kind lady come to where not my daughter. And then eventually one day the lady stopped me and
had a conversation. And the conversation lead to why people die and what happened when they
did. Knowing is, no body thought. It's just our imperfection. I found that the great relief
God did not punish me for that. And from then on, I started a Bible study for her.
But my study, progressing very slow by that time, I had six children. I also have to work
full time. And also, the lady doesn't speak Chinese. And my English is no bit than her Chinese
leader. When I dedicated my life to Jehovah, it's not been easy. If I as my husband concern,
his wife should be concentrate looking after family and business, some wasting time on religions
like that. My mum as well, very much against me, become Jehovah witnesses. My husband
shouted at me often. He gave me her time because I want to take all my children to the meeting.
One day, he wanted me to choose between him or Jehovah. My praise Jehovah. I said, Jehovah,
now it's a time. I need your Holy Spirit to help me. And I said, my husband is a good man.
And he deserved to know why I choose my life. And I just feel so calm. And then I turn around
and ask my husband, what do you think of me since I've become a witness? Am I a better wife?
Or am I getting worse? So my husband said, oh, okay, then if that was the case, go serve your God
Jehovah. Before my mother died, my mother actually prayed to Jehovah to thank him to say,
since I've become a Jehovah witnesses, I've become a better daughter. I remember one day,
when my Bible student came up to my house and she was crying because she suffered persecution
from her husband. And my husband was sitting next to me and then he turned around and said,
you just have to persevere because my wife went through the same experience and looks where she is now.
The last 10 years, my husband come to all the meeting with me.
Seeing my children happy is the most important thing for me. And they're not only happy for a short time,
but they also have a happy future. My life now, I'm no longer lonely, I'm no longer a fatherless child,
because I know Jehovah care for me, Jehovah help a little woman like me. And I'm sure Jehovah will help anybody who has to watch him.
Sister Lee's example helps us to see that even in spiritually divided homes,
applying Bible principles in our life, can often soften the heart of our mate toward the truth.
Having seen some beautiful examples of showing honor within our marriage,
let's now look at ways of showing honor to one another in the congregation.
For example, what if we're serving in a foreign territory where the customs and culture
are quite different from what we're accustomed to? This is just one of many challenges
often faced by ones involved in the international construction work.
What have they found to be helpful when adapting to new environments?
I've been involved in the International Construction Service for eight years in Congo,
in Senegal, and now we're here in the Philippines. It's such a wonderful, wonderful privilege that
Jehovah has given me through the years to learn different skills that I never ever imagined I was
able to do. A construction site is a very happy site. Once you get there and you're working with
your brothers and sisters, it's just happiness and joy. To be able to see the love they have for Jehovah
and the love they have for their assignment, that has been a wonderful thing. Everywhere you go,
you can learn from a culture. There's like strong points in each culture that you can learn
and apply in your own life. There's been challenges and sacrifices we've made. For example,
living behind friends who have become very close, the congregation is a stronghold. It stabilizes
us. Actually, without the congregation, we couldn't be able to do our assignment. When we first came
to the Philippines, we were feeling kind of low and out of place, but then the family from our
new hall invited us over for a meal after service. There would be some really good, tasty local dishes,
they played music, we sang, that just canceled the homesickness that we were feeling.
We support the local congregation by having a good service routine. The construction work that
we do is the physical work, so sometimes you can lose the focus. We're being out in service,
being able to work with the Brazilian sisters, it puts you back in focus. I really love being an
external service because I love people. Working for hours with my Brazilian sisters just makes me
very happy and at the end of the day, it's always, always a very good day. Did you notice the beautiful
thought that every culture has its own strong points that we can learn from and apply in our lives?
What an excellent way to cultivate an attitude of viewing others as superior.
But what about ones outside the congregation? Do we show honor to them as well? Of course.
Galatians 6, 10 tells us, as long as we have the opportunity, let us work what is good toward all.
The best way we can do this is by helping them cultivate and satisfy their spiritual needs.
We now visit a town in the state of Oregon in the United States, where the congregations had a
unique opportunity to do just this. An exciting event took place in 2017 across the United States.
August 21, 2017 has been on a lot of people's calendars for a long time because of the total
eclipse. As Jehovah's Witnesses, we are constantly on the lookout for events where we can support
community outreach. Brothers and sisters prepared well in advance to give a Bible education to the many
travelers. What convinced us that this was an opportunity to give a great witness was we did
a little research and we noticed the hotel bookings. The town was packed so we could tell this was
going to be a big event. We needed to do something. We wanted to be in a position to share the wonderful
things from the Bible with them. We need to take a global approach. We had to identify all the
resources in band, not just to it by an individual congregation. So in our campaign, we decided to
feature three primary tools. First, what does the Bible really teach? Because many people wonder.
Second, was life created with an eclipse event. People are thinking about the universe.
It's a good opportunity to talk about our creator. And thirdly, jdm.org, since we expect a lot of
visitors from all over the world, we could reach them in their language. Over 200 brothers and sisters
attended two seminars put on by local brothers to help prepare individuals for the massive campaign.
We had examples of what not to do and what to do so as to benefit as many people as possible.
We had an interview. We had demonstrations on how to speak to people in different languages.
We're expecting people from many different parts of the world. It's actually an opportunity to be
like a missionary in our own hometown. Some of the estimates that we have heard are conservative
estimates of probably 200,000 visitors. It may be more than that.
The local congregations made themselves available to work with city officials to prepare the
parks for the large influx of people. So many of Jehovah's Witnesses have volunteered to help
in all kinds of things. These are really small communities that are having a very large influx
of people. So all of that extra effort and help in kind of preparing and cleaning up is much
appreciated. We've had been working with Jehovah's Witnesses for a period of years here at Smith
Rock. It's been a good experience for our staff and our volunteers and we want to accommodate that
anyway we can. There's been a lot of good things happening with cart witnessing. One of the friends
had a nice experience with an Arabic speaking man, but she said the seminar is what helped
there to be prepared. She knew how to work the app, how to find the video in the language. She already
had it downloaded and ready to go. Paul spoke about his ministry. He said, well, is me if I did not
declare the good news? So we don't want to look back in which we would have done more.
Trying it for the first time, it can be scary, it can be nerve-wracking, but it's not so scary
after you get started. What's really been fun is what we are calling roving. We go into an area where
there's a lot of people and we just start conversations. We don't carry any literature. We just
have our device and the JW got work contact card and then hopefully if the opportunity resents
itself, we may share them a video or tell them where Jehovah's Witnesses. It's just been a paradise
for them, a preaching paradise to all these visitors coming in. We may not see the results
of the seed that was planted when they take a look at our card, but Jehovah knows and the
angels know and can make that room. This endeavor has really helped me to appreciate the need
to be alert, to ways to expand our ministry. Most communities have a calendar of events,
have we thought about looking at it and then make plans to give a witness by having our literature
cards out. In really events like this, they have a bigger impact on us as Jehovah's Witnesses,
because we have an opportunity to talk, we get excited about our work or all working together
shoulder to shoulder. It really builds our faith. Recently a scripture that stood out to me was
First Chronicles chapter 28 verse 20 where it says, be courageous and go to work.
Help me to realize I just need to take the initiative and try. That's what we all need to do.
And then let Jehovah decide how things turn out. Jehovah will no doubt bless your efforts as you
show an interest in others. The interest we show in others is most noteworthy within the bounds of
our own brotherhood. Galatians 6th 10, which we quoted earlier, ends its thought about working good
toward all saying that we should do this especially toward those related to us in the faith.
Our music video entitled You Can Count On Me provides a touching example of how this good can be shown.
He sees what we are and what more we could be. It's all in the way that what talented
gift we possess to be is carried so you're my friend and I'm there times our tears expressing what
birds cannot say. We conclude this month's program by traveling to Indonesia. Compose of
more than 17,000 islands it consists of hundreds of distinctive ethnic and linguistic groups
with the largest being the Javanese. Let's visit the city of Malong which has some 370
publishers and nine congregations. The territory here is productive with many who are open to the
Bible's message. The largest challenge our brothers face here is economic hardship. It's not easy to
provide even basic necessities so many people in the territory work long hours. However, the pioneers
have found an ingenious way to make a living making milk juice and cakes from soybeans. A typical day
will have them up at 3 a.m. making fresh soy products and then selling them on the street in the morning.
In the afternoon they preach and go to the market that evening to buy fresh ingredients for the
next day's work. While the brothers and Malong have not yet been able to obtain a permit for an
official kingdom hall they often meet in private homes. Although it can be cramped and hot,
attendance is nearly always well over 100%. The publishers and Malong send their warm love
and greetings to our entire global brotherhood. This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses.